I don't like the word "gymnasium" because it caused me a lot of CONFUSION /misunderstanding THAN/Until REALIZED/found that it means
something completely different in English and Czech. 
Really a lot of ONFUSION /misunderstanding. In my language, the word "gymnázium" means a general high school, which is usually 
considered somewhat higher in quality than schools with a specific focus. 
In the past, gymnázium was preparation for university, THIS ID NOT LONGER CASE TODAY / which is not so much the case today , because university can be attended from 
practically any high school. Gymnázium is usually 
focused on mathematics, physics, or chemistry. Although the prestige and DIFFICULTY/rigor of gymnázium are slowly decreasing, it still 
generally holds that the study here is more DIFFICULTY/demanding
than at other high schools. In English, this word means a gymnasium, a place FOR/where you exercise. Sometimes, it happened to me that I was 
chatting with a foreigner on the internet, and they asked
me where I SSTUDY/studied. I, all excited and proud, said that I study gymnázium and THOUGHT I WOULD LOOK SMART/was looking forward to looking smart and how I would rise in the 
eyes of the foreigner because I must be terribly smart if I
study at such a school. Never mind that the Czech education system is terrible and gymnázium is no longer what they used to be. 
The foreigner usually got a bit confused and then asked me if I
like to exercise. WTF, why would I like to exercise, I kept telling myself. What is he talking about?

It took me quite a while to realize where the problem was. It took me quite a while before it occurred to me to ask Google Translate. And it explained to me why everyone was so confused when
I was basically telling them that I study in a gym. I must admit that to this day, I have no idea how to explain to an English person, in some simple way, what gymnázium means, and I don't even know
if foreigners have this type of school or not. I don't know the English equivalent, but today it doesn't bother me as much because firstly, I don't talk to foreigners anymore, and secondly, I simply 
say that I study at university and don't specify where and what kind. After all, nobody cares, and nobody asks.

I, for one, never really understood how schools work in foreign countries, especially in America. When the term "high school" means "střední škola" (secondary school) in my language, which is "middle school".
And the university (in my languane „vysoká škola“ – „high school“) is called something completely different. Who can make sense of that? Certainly not me. And why is it all so tangled? They are surely used to it 
and don't even notice. But it's tangled. We have it normal, and they have it wrong. Just like with that gymnasium thing. Seriously, why can't everyone learn Czech? Everything would be simplified.

But back to gymnásium. The biggest confusion for foreigners occurred when I mentioned that I was studying at a mathematical gymnasium. At that time, I wanted to appear smart and I wanted others to think that 
I understood mathematic. 
It was true that my high school, my "middle school," was focused on mathematics, but that definitely didn't mean that I was smart or that I understood it. But I wanted to look like it. So I told foreigners that 
I was studying at a gymnásium with a focus on mathematics. They probably had to think that I was jumping through hoops or something.
